docs: create concepts - ralph docs (#85)
openedx/openedx-aspects: docs/concepts/extensions.rst

Reviewer: Line 12 add pronoun : Aspects allows **you** to programmatically define ....
Line 13, replace "an" with "a"

Reviewer: Line 47: Add pronoun "you" . Aspects allows "you" to override ...
Line 176, add comma "Once the customer jinja filter is defined, **it** is necessary".... (Insert 'it').
Line 187 Add pronoun "you" . Aspects allows "you" to add ...
Line 211, add common after "Once you have defined your custom roles, "
Line 226: add period at end of sentence.
Line 231: Add pronoun "you" . Aspects allows "you" to add...
Line 251, add common after " To extend the DBT project, "
Line 257, recommend rewording this sentence as thought is not clear: Whether to enable the DBT project override feature, which allows you to .....

Reviewer: Line 35, 44, 88,  : Aspects allows [the site operator]  to add  - better to keep the verbiage consistent.

Line 68, 79, 108, add comma after intro phrases, "To extend the DBT project, you...."

.. _extensions:

Aspects Extensions
#####################

Aspects is a project that comes with a set of extensions that can be used to
extend the different parts of the project.

Superset Assets
================

> Aspects allows to programatically define custom superset assets via a tutor patch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Aspects allows to programatically define custom superset assets, such as custom data sources, queries, reports, and dashboards, via a Tutor patch.
```

Developers can use an tutor inline plugin with the patch `superset-extra-assets`
and those will be imported at initialization.

An example of such a plugin is the following:

.. code-block:: yaml

    name: custom-inline-plugin
    version: 0.1.0
    patches:
    superset-extra-assets: |
        - _file_name: my-dashboard.yaml
        dashboard_title: "..."
        ...
        - _file_name: my-chart.yaml
        slice_name: "..."
        ...
        - _file_name: my-database.yaml
        database_name: "..."
        ...
        - _file_name: my-dataset.yaml
        table_name: "..."
        ...

The patch is expected to be a list of assets with an extra attribute called **_file_name**,
which uniquely identifies the asset entry. This file does not need to exist anywhere;

> it will be created with the rest of the yaml in that stanza as part of the init process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
it will be created with the rest of the yaml in that stanza as part of the Tutor / Aspects initialization process.
```

Reviewer 2: There's a lot of good content in here, but I think that we should probably make this page a list of the extension points with a short summary of why someone would want to use them, then move each of these sections to a how-to doc that can be linked to from here. These seem more technical than a high level concept doc.

displayed name for that language. The mapping above shows all of the current languages
supported by Superset, but please note that different languages have different levels
of completion and support at this time.

Custom Row Level Security Filters to Superset
=============================================
If you add new datasources, tables, or datasets to Superset, you may want to add new
row level security filters to restrict access to that data based on things like user
roles, or organization. To apply custom row level security filters to Superset,
you can use the patch `superset-row-level-security`. This patch expects a list of python
dictionaries with the following structure:

.. code-block:: yaml

    superset-row-level-security: |
        {
            "schema": "{{ASPECTS_XAPI_DATABASE}}",
            "table_name": "{{ASPECTS_XAPI_TABLE}}",
            "role_name": "{{SUPERSET_ROLES_MAPPING.instructor}}",
            "group_key": "{{SUPERSET_ROW_LEVEL_SECURITY_XAPI_GROUP_KEY}}",
            "clause": {% raw %}'{{can_view_courses(current_username(), "splitByChar(\'/\', course_id)[-1]")}}',{% endraw %}
            "filter_type": "Regular",
        },

> You can find more information about superset RLSF in the `superset documentation <https://superset.apache.org/docs/security/#row-level-security>`_.

Reviewer 2: Wherever we talk about things like this (Jinja filters, roles, etc) we should add links like you did here!

                    },
                }
            ],
        }

Once you have defined your custom roles you probably want to assign them to users
automatically at login. You can do so by using the patch **superset-sso-assignment-rules**.
This patch expects valid python code and should return a list of roles:

.. code-block:: python

    if "edunext" in username:
        return ["admin"]
    else:
        return []

In the context of the code you can access to the following variables:

- **self**: OpenEdxSsoSecurityManager instance.
- **username**: username of the user.
- **decoded_access_token**: decoded JWT token of the user (can be used to perform API calls)

Custom Clickhouse SQL
=====================

Aspects allows to add custom clickhouse SQL at initialization. To do so, you can use the patch
`clickhouse-extra-sql` which you can use to define new SQL. This patch expects valid clickhouse SQL
code:

.. code-block:: yaml
    
    clickhouse-extra-sql: |
        CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS {{ASPECTS_XAPI_DATABASE}}.{{ASPECTS_XAPI_TABLE}} (
            ...
        ) ENGINE = MergeTree()
        PARTITION BY toDate(timestamp)
        ORDER BY (timestamp, uuid)

>         SETTINGS index_granularity = 8192

Reviewer 2: We should make clear that these statements should be separated by semicolons.
